WP 7.3 operated iOS draft/keyboard evidence, 2026-10-09.

Real iOS app, simulator qelvora-lane7-ios, XCUITest approved by the founder.
API, development identities and message results are synthetic in these flows.
Real API/PostgreSQL D6 also passed; see 7-3-real-stack-run.txt for its separate proof.
All runs use the LANE-7 heavy-build lock. No new unit or snapshot tests.

Current passing evidence:
- ios-navigation-1791599747113.xcresult: D1 lifecycle and D3 largest text.
  2 passed, 0 skipped, 0 failed. Rotation keeps the draft and keyboard clear;
  background/process stop preserves input; refocusing the restored editor works.
  No premature message POST. Light/Night portrait/landscape full-screen captures
  visually show readable author words/glyph and composer/Send above the live IME.
- ios-navigation-1791601214001.xcresult: D2, D4R, D4, D5, D7U.
  5 passed, 0 skipped, 0 failed. Independent drafts survive navigation/restart.
  Accepted Send clears the draft file. Rejected input survives restart/Keep editing.
  Direct rejected-message Retry and pre-acceptance network-drop Retry both use the
  original hashed key; exactly one synthetic message is accepted.
  Accepted response loss followed by restart checks status, with one message POST.
  Sign-out, other-account denial, fresh 401/403/404 and recreated physical thread
  all remove the former draft. Emoji/Hebrew/Arabic input survives restart; stored
  bytes lack its plaintext marker; backup exclusion is present; no message POST.
- ios-navigation-1791600580433.xcresult: D7 and D8 individually pass.
  D7 preserves the existing 2000-character limit through restart with ciphertext
  and no upload. D8 accepts the older send once and preserves newer unsent input.
  This bundle overall failed D4R and D5; those failures were fixed and passed above.

Failures retained:
- Original landscape overlapped keyboard; largest text clipped the header.
- Intrinsic-height TextField attempts stalled in SwiftUI/TextKit layout. The final
  input is a bounded scrolling TextEditor at the original 390-point frame width.
- Old field/actor locators and a stale off-screen keyboard frame failed runners;
  corrected waits, observed actor-label prefixes and restored-input editing pass.
- A 422 response marked transport offline; direct Retry sent nothing. Both apps
  now keep the live transport for definite input rejections. Denials, conflicts
  and transport/server failures retain conceal/recovery behavior.
- Harness repeated subscriptions and abrupt disconnects leaked listeners, causing
  recreation to return 409. The HTTP/WS probe now proves one live listener and none
  after normal close, repeated subscription or a process-like disconnect.

Reproduction after build-for-testing and starting the fake API/link driver:
LANE7_OUT=<scratch> node tests/scenarios/lane-7/ios-navigation.mjs <built.xctestrun> --drafts D1 D2 D3 D4 D4R D5 D7 D7U D8
The runner fails unless every selected flow passes and none is skipped.

Header presentation awaits founder approval: compact fixed author label/glyph;
full identity sentence in the scroller. Charter 4.2 requires the full strip fixed.
Physical-device/store installation and forced filesystem-write interruption: not run.
